TIMELINE_PLAYLIST_FEATURE.md, before:

# Timeline Playlist Feature for Horus-RV

## Overview

The Timeline Playlist feature adds professional NLE-style playlist management to Horus-RV, following Adobe Premiere Pro interface patterns. This feature provides a comprehensive timeline editor with playlist management capabilities integrated into the existing Horus three-panel system.

## Features

### 🎬 Professional NLE Interface
- **Left Panel**: Playlist tree with project organization
- **Right Panel**: Timeline tracks with professional visualization
- **Adobe Premiere Pro Patterns**: Industry-standard interface design
- **Department Color Coding**: Visual organization by department
- **Timeline Ruler**: Timecode display and navigation

### 📋 Playlist Management
- **Create Playlists**: Custom named playlists with metadata
- **Duplicate Playlists**: Copy existing playlists with modifications
- **Rename Playlists**: Update playlist names and descriptions
- **Delete Playlists**: Remove unwanted playlists with confirmation
- **Status Tracking**: Active, draft, and archived playlist states

### 🎞️ Clip Management
- **Add Clips**: Right-click media items to add to current playlist
- **Reorder Clips**: Drag-and-drop functionality for clip organization
- **Replace Versions**: Update clip versions while maintaining timeline position
- **Remove Clips**: Delete clips from playlists
- **Timeline Visualization**: Professional track-based display

### 🎨 Visual Design
- **Department Colors**:
  - Animation: Blue (#1f4e79)
  - Lighting: Orange (#d68910)
  - Compositing: Green (#196f3d)
  - FX: Purple (#6c3483)
  - Modeling: Red (#a93226)
  - Texturing: Brown (#8b4513)
  - Rigging: Sea Green (#2e8b57)
  - Layout: Steel Blue (#4682b4)

## Database Schema

### Playlist Structure
```json
{
  "_id": "playlist_001",
  "name": "Episode 01 - Animation Review",
  "project_id": "proj_001",
  "created_by": "user",
  "created_at": "2025-01-23T10:00:00Z",
  "updated_at": "2025-01-23T15:30:00Z",
  "description": "Animation review playlist",
  "type": "review",
  "status": "active",
  "settings": {
    "auto_play": true,
    "loop": false,
    "show_timecode": true,
    "default_track_height": 60,
    "timeline_zoom": 1.0,
    "color_coding_enabled": true
  },
  "clips": [...],
  "tracks": [...],
  "metadata": {...}
}
```

### Clip Structure
```json
{
  "clip_id": "clip_001",
  "media_id": "media_001",
  "position": 0,
  "duration": 120,
  "in_point": 0,
  "out_point": 120,
  "track": 1,
  "department": "animation",
  "sequence": "seq010",
  "shot": "shot010",
  "version": "v003",
  "color": "#1f4e79",
  "notes": "Final animation approved",
  "added_at": "2025-01-23T10:15:00Z"
}
```

## Integration

### Feature Flag
The Timeline Playlist feature can be enabled/disabled using the feature flag:
```python
ENABLE_TIMELINE_PLAYLIST = True  # Set to False to disable
```

### Open RV Integration
- **Dock Widget**: Tabified with existing timeline for space efficiency
- **Media Browser**: Right-click context menu to add clips to playlists
- **Playback Integration**: Seamless loading of clips in Open RV
- **Backward Compatibility**: Existing functionality remains unchanged

### File Structure
```
Horus/
├── horus_timeline_playlist_widget.py    # Main widget implementation
├── rv_horus_integration.py              # Updated integration
├── sample_db/horus_playlists.json       # Playlist database
├── demo_timeline_playlist.py            # Standalone demo
└── TIMELINE_PLAYLIST_FEATURE.md         # This documentation
```

## Usage

### In Open RV
1. Launch Horus-RV: `python rv_horus_integration.py`
2. Look for "Timeline Playlist Manager" dock widget
3. Create new playlists or select existing ones
4. Right-click media items in Media Grid to add to current playlist
5. Click clips in timeline to load in Open RV

### Standalone Demo
```bash
python demo_timeline_playlist.py
```

## Development

### Git Branch
Development is done on the `feature/timeline-playlist` branch following Git Flow strategy.

### Dependencies
- PySide2 (Qt framework)
- Existing Horus database structure
- Open RV integration (optional for standalone demo)

### Testing
- Standalone demo for widget testing
- Integration testing with Open RV
- Database schema validation
- Cross-platform compatibility

## Future Enhancements

### Planned Features
- **Audio Track Support**: Multi-channel audio timeline
- **Transition Effects**: Crossfades and transitions between clips
- **Markers and Notes**: Frame-accurate annotations
- **Export Functionality**: EDL, XML, and AAF export
- **Collaborative Features**: Multi-user playlist editing
- **Version Control**: Playlist versioning and history

### Integration Opportunities
- **ShotGrid Integration**: Automatic playlist creation from ShotGrid data
- **ftrack Integration**: Review session synchronization
- **OpenTimelineIO**: Industry-standard timeline data exchange
- **Color Pipeline**: Shot-based color management integration

## Technical Architecture

### Widget Hierarchy
```
HorusTimelinePlaylistWidget
├── Header (title and main controls)
├── Main Splitter
│   ├── Left Panel (playlist tree and controls)
│   └── Right Panel (timeline tracks and ruler)
└── Integration signals and slots
```

### Signal/Slot Architecture
- `playlist_selected(str)`: Emitted when playlist is selected
- `clip_selected(str)`: Emitted when clip is clicked
- `playback_requested(str, int)`: Emitted for media loading

### Performance Considerations
- Lazy loading of timeline visualization
- Efficient clip widget creation and management
- Optimized database operations
- Memory management for large playlists

This Timeline Playlist feature represents a significant enhancement to Horus-RV, bringing professional NLE capabilities to the VFX review workflow while maintaining the existing three-panel architecture and ensuring backward compatibility.

Commit message:

fix: Properly integrate Timeline Playlist into rv_horus_integration.py
BREAKING CHANGE: Remove standalone widget approach and fully integrate Timeline Playlist functionality directly into rv_horus_integration.py

- Remove standalone horus_timeline_playlist_widget.py file
- Integrate all Timeline Playlist functionality directly into rv_horus_integration.py
- Add create_timeline_playlist_panel() function following existing panel patterns
- Implement playlist tree panel with professional NLE styling
- Add timeline tracks panel with department color coding
- Include comprehensive playlist management (create, duplicate, rename, delete)
- Add right-click context menu integration with media browser
- Implement timeline visualization with rulers and clip widgets
- Add proper data loading and saving for horus_playlists.json
- Maintain feature flag (ENABLE_TIMELINE_PLAYLIST) for optional activation
- Follow existing three-panel architecture patterns
- Ensure backward compatibility with existing functionality
- Add proper error handling and user feedback
- Include department-based color coding for clips
- Support timeline clip clicking to load media in Open RV

Integration Features:
- Tabified dock widget with existing Timeline Sequence panel
- Right-click media items in Media Grid to add to current playlist
- Professional playlist tree with project organization
- Timeline tracks with Adobe Premiere Pro styling
- Comprehensive playlist management controls
- Real-time timeline visualization updates
- Seamless Open RV media loading integration

This properly addresses the user's requirement for integrated functionality
rather than standalone widgets, following the established Horus-RV patterns.

TIMELINE_PLAYLIST_FEATURE.md, after:

# Timeline Playlist Feature for Horus-RV

## Overview

The Timeline Playlist feature adds professional NLE-style playlist management to Horus-RV, following Adobe Premiere Pro interface patterns. This feature provides a comprehensive timeline editor with playlist management capabilities integrated into the existing Horus three-panel system.

## Features

### 🎬 Professional NLE Interface
- **Left Panel**: Playlist tree with project organization
- **Right Panel**: Timeline tracks with professional visualization
- **Adobe Premiere Pro Patterns**: Industry-standard interface design
- **Department Color Coding**: Visual organization by department
- **Timeline Ruler**: Timecode display and navigation

### 📋 Playlist Management
- **Create Playlists**: Custom named playlists with metadata
- **Duplicate Playlists**: Copy existing playlists with modifications
- **Rename Playlists**: Update playlist names and descriptions
- **Delete Playlists**: Remove unwanted playlists with confirmation
- **Status Tracking**: Active, draft, and archived playlist states

### 🎞️ Clip Management
- **Add Clips**: Right-click media items to add to current playlist
- **Reorder Clips**: Drag-and-drop functionality for clip organization
- **Replace Versions**: Update clip versions while maintaining timeline position
- **Remove Clips**: Delete clips from playlists
- **Timeline Visualization**: Professional track-based display

### 🎨 Visual Design
- **Department Colors**:
  - Animation: Blue (#1f4e79)
  - Lighting: Orange (#d68910)
  - Compositing: Green (#196f3d)
  - FX: Purple (#6c3483)
  - Modeling: Red (#a93226)
  - Texturing: Brown (#8b4513)
  - Rigging: Sea Green (#2e8b57)
  - Layout: Steel Blue (#4682b4)

## Database Schema

### Playlist Structure
```json
{
  "_id": "playlist_001",
  "name": "Episode 01 - Animation Review",
  "project_id": "proj_001",
  "created_by": "user",
  "created_at": "2025-01-23T10:00:00Z",
  "updated_at": "2025-01-23T15:30:00Z",
  "description": "Animation review playlist",
  "type": "review",
  "status": "active",
  "settings": {
    "auto_play": true,
    "loop": false,
    "show_timecode": true,
    "default_track_height": 60,
    "timeline_zoom": 1.0,
    "color_coding_enabled": true
  },
  "clips": [...],
  "tracks": [...],
  "metadata": {...}
}
```

### Clip Structure
```json
{
  "clip_id": "clip_001",
  "media_id": "media_001",
  "position": 0,
  "duration": 120,
  "in_point": 0,
  "out_point": 120,
  "track": 1,
  "department": "animation",
  "sequence": "seq010",
  "shot": "shot010",
  "version": "v003",
  "color": "#1f4e79",
  "notes": "Final animation approved",
  "added_at": "2025-01-23T10:15:00Z"
}
```

## Integration

### Feature Flag
The Timeline Playlist feature can be enabled/disabled using the feature flag:
```python
ENABLE_TIMELINE_PLAYLIST = True  # Set to False to disable
```

### Open RV Integration
- **Dock Widget**: Tabified with existing timeline for space efficiency
- **Media Browser**: Right-click context menu to add clips to playlists
- **Playback Integration**: Seamless loading of clips in Open RV
- **Backward Compatibility**: Existing functionality remains unchanged

### File Structure
```
Horus/
├── rv_horus_integration.py              # Main integration with Timeline Playlist
├── sample_db/horus_playlists.json       # Playlist database
└── TIMELINE_PLAYLIST_FEATURE.md         # This documentation
```

## Usage

### In Open RV
1. Launch Horus-RV: `python rv_horus_integration.py`
2. Look for "Timeline Playlist Manager" dock widget (tabified with Timeline Sequence)
3. Create new playlists using "New Playlist" button
4. Select playlists from the tree to view timeline visualization
5. Right-click media items in Media Grid to add to current playlist
6. Click clips in timeline to load in Open RV
7. Use playlist controls (Duplicate, Rename, Delete) for management

### Integration Features
- **Seamless Integration**: Fully integrated into existing rv_horus_integration.py
- **Feature Flag**: Can be enabled/disabled with ENABLE_TIMELINE_PLAYLIST
- **No Standalone Mode**: Designed to work within the Horus-RV ecosystem
- **Backward Compatibility**: Existing functionality remains unchanged

## Development

### Git Branch
Development is done on the `feature/timeline-playlist` branch following Git Flow strategy.

### Dependencies
- PySide2 (Qt framework)
- Existing Horus database structure
- Open RV integration (optional for standalone demo)

### Testing
- Standalone demo for widget testing
- Integration testing with Open RV
- Database schema validation
- Cross-platform compatibility

## Future Enhancements

### Planned Features
- **Audio Track Support**: Multi-channel audio timeline
- **Transition Effects**: Crossfades and transitions between clips
- **Markers and Notes**: Frame-accurate annotations
- **Export Functionality**: EDL, XML, and AAF export
- **Collaborative Features**: Multi-user playlist editing
- **Version Control**: Playlist versioning and history

### Integration Opportunities
- **ShotGrid Integration**: Automatic playlist creation from ShotGrid data
- **ftrack Integration**: Review session synchronization
- **OpenTimelineIO**: Industry-standard timeline data exchange
- **Color Pipeline**: Shot-based color management integration

## Technical Architecture

### Widget Hierarchy
```
HorusTimelinePlaylistWidget
├── Header (title and main controls)
├── Main Splitter
│   ├── Left Panel (playlist tree and controls)
│   └── Right Panel (timeline tracks and ruler)
└── Integration signals and slots
```

### Signal/Slot Architecture
- `playlist_selected(str)`: Emitted when playlist is selected
- `clip_selected(str)`: Emitted when clip is clicked
- `playback_requested(str, int)`: Emitted for media loading

### Performance Considerations
- Lazy loading of timeline visualization
- Efficient clip widget creation and management
- Optimized database operations
- Memory management for large playlists

This Timeline Playlist feature represents a significant enhancement to Horus-RV, bringing professional NLE capabilities to the VFX review workflow while maintaining the existing three-panel architecture and ensuring backward compatibility.
